🌐 JavaScript: Callbacks vs Promises
1. Asynchronous Programming

JavaScript is single-threaded → it executes one task at a time.
Some operations (like fetching data, file reading, timers, API calls) take time → these should not block the main thread.
To handle such tasks, JavaScript uses asynchronous programming.

2. Callbacks
A callback is a function passed as an argument to another function.
It is executed once the async operation completes.
Example flow:

Do step 1 → when done, call step 2 → when done, call step 3.

Advantages of Callbacks:
Simple to implement.
Foundation of async handling in JS.


Problems with Callbacks:
Callback Hell: when callbacks are deeply nested, making code hard to read and maintain.
Error handling becomes tricky.
Difficult to scale in large applications.

3. Callback Hell

Callback hell occurs when many async functions are nested inside each other.
Code becomes like a pyramid (indentation grows).
Hard to debug, maintain, or reuse.

Example real-life scenario:

Login user → Fetch profile → Fetch order history.
Using callbacks, this becomes deeply nested.

4. Promises

A Promise is an object that represents the eventual result of an async operation.
It is more structured than callbacks.

States of a promise:

Pending → initial state.
Fulfilled (Resolved) → operation completed successfully.
Rejected → operation failed.

Advantages of Promises:

Avoids callback hell.
Makes async code easier to read with chaining (.then() and .catch()).
Centralized error handling.

5. Promise Chaining

Promises allow .then() to run sequentially.
Each .then() receives the result of the previous promise.
Errors are caught using .catch().
This makes async code cleaner and avoids deep nesting.

6. Promise Methods

JavaScript provides utility methods to handle multiple promises together:

Promise.all([p1, p2, p3])

Runs all promises in parallel.
Returns an array of results when all succeed.
If any promise rejects → the whole thing rejects.

Promise.allSettled([p1, p2, p3])

Runs all promises.
Returns results for all, with status (fulfilled/rejected).
Never fails as a whole.

Promise.race([p1, p2, p3])

Returns the result of the first promise that settles (whether fulfilled or rejected).
Useful when you only care about the fastest one.

Promise.any([p1, p2, p3])

Returns the first fulfilled promise.
Ignores rejected ones.
If all reject → throws AggregateError.